update tutorials (#3726)
brimdata/zed: docs/tutorials/join.md

* only equ-join is supported.

A more comprehensive join design with easier-to-use syntax is forthcoming.

## Example Data

The first input data source for our usage examples is `fruit.ndjson`, which describes
the characteristics of some fresh produce.

```mdtest-input fruit.ndjson
{"name":"apple","color":"red","flavor":"tart"}
{"name":"banana","color":"yellow","flavor":"sweet"}
{"name":"avocado","color":"green","flavor":"savory"}
{"name":"strawberry","color":"red","flavor":"sweet"}
{"name":"dates","color":"brown","flavor":"sweet","note":"in season"}
{"name":"figs","color":"brown","flavor":"plain"}
```

The other input data source is `people.ndjson`, which describes the traits
and preferences of some potential eaters of fruit.

```mdtest-input people.ndjson
{"name":"morgan","age":61,"likes":"tart"}
{"name":"quinn","age":14,"likes":"sweet","note":"many kids enjoy sweets"}
{"name":"jessie","age":30,"likes":"plain"}
{"name":"chris","age":47,"likes":"tart"}
```

## Inner Join

We'll start by outputting only the fruits liked by at least one person.
The name of the matching person is copied into a field of a different name in
the joined results.

> Because we're performing an inner join (the default), the inclusion of the
> explicit `inner` is not strictly necessary, but may be included to help make
> the Zed self-documenting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we're performing an inner join (the default), the
explicit `inner` is not strictly necessary, but including it clarifies our intention.
```

{name:"apple",color:"red",flavor:"tart",eater:"morgan",age:61}
{name:"apple",color:"red",flavor:"tart",eater:"chris",age:47}
```

## Right join

Next we'll change the join type from `left` to `right`. Notice that this causes
the `note` field from the right-hand input to appear in the joined results.

The Zed script `right-join.zed`:
```mdtest-input right-join.zed
from (
  file fruit.ndjson => sort flavor
  file people.ndjson => sort likes
) | right join on flavor=likes fruit:=name
```
Executing the Zed script:
```mdtest-command
zq -z -I right-join.zed
```
produces
```mdtest-output
{name:"jessie",age:30,likes:"plain",fruit:"figs"}
{name:"quinn",age:14,likes:"sweet",note:"many kids enjoy sweets",fruit:"banana"}
{name:"quinn",age:14,likes:"sweet",note:"many kids enjoy sweets",fruit:"strawberry"}
{name:"quinn",age:14,likes:"sweet",note:"many kids enjoy sweets",fruit:"dates"}
{name:"morgan",age:61,likes:"tart",fruit:"apple"}
{name:"chris",age:47,likes:"tart",fruit:"apple"}
```

## Inputs from Pools

As our prior examples all used `zq`, we used `file` in our `from()` block to
pull our respective inputs from named file sources. However, if the inputs are

> stored in Pools in a Zed lake, the Pool names would instead be specified in the

Reviewer: s/Pool/pool/g

`from()` block.

Here we'll load our input data to Pools in a temporary Zed Lake, then execute
our inner join using `zed query`.

Notice that because we happened to use `-orderby` to sort our Pools by the same
keys that we reference in our `join`, we did not need to use any explicit
upstream `sort`.

The Zed script `inner-join-pools.zed`:

```mdtest-input inner-join-pools.zed
from (
  pool fruit
  pool people
) | inner join on flavor=likes eater:=name
```

Populating the Pools, then executing the Zed script:

```mdtest-command

> mkdir lake

Reviewer: `zed init` does this.
```suggestion
```

```
produces
```mdtest-output
{name:"figs",color:"brown",flavor:"plain",eater:"jessie"}
{name:"banana",color:"yellow",flavor:"sweet",eater:"quinn"}
{name:"strawberry",color:"red",flavor:"sweet",eater:"quinn"}
{name:"dates",color:"brown",flavor:"sweet",note:"in season",eater:"quinn"}
{name:"apple",color:"red",flavor:"tart",eater:"morgan"}
{name:"apple",color:"red",flavor:"tart",eater:"chris"}
```

## Multi-value Joins

The equality test in a Zed join accepts only one named key from each input.
However, joins on multiple matching values can still be performed by making the
values available in comparable complex types, such as embedded records.

To illustrate this, we'll introduce some new input data `inventory.ndjson`
that represents a vendor's available quantity of fruit for sale. As the colors
indicate, they separately offer both ripe and unripe fruit.

```mdtest-input inventory.ndjson
{"name":"banana","color":"yellow","quantity":1000}
{"name":"banana","color":"green","quantity":5000}
{"name":"strawberry","color":"red","quantity":3000}
{"name":"strawberry","color":"white","quantity":6000}
```

Let's assume we're interested in seeing the available quantities of only the

> immediately-edible fruit/color combinations shown in our `fruit.ndjson`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ripe fruit in our `fruit.ndjson`
```

records. In the Zed script `multi-value-join.zed`, we create the keys as
embedded records inside each input record, using the same field names and data
types in each. We'll leave the created `fruitkey` records intact to show what
they look like, but since it represents redundant data, in practice we'd
typically [`drop`](#drop) it after the `join` in our Zed pipeline.

```mdtest-input multi-value-join.zed
from (

>   file fruit.ndjson => put fruitkey:={name:string(name),color:string(color)} | sort fruitkey
>   file inventory.ndjson => put invkey:={name:string(name),color:string(color)} | sort invkey

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  file fruit.ndjson => put fruitkey:={name,color} | sort fruitkey
  file inventory.ndjson => put invkey:={name,color} | sort invkey
```
